Activists protest alleged Capitol Hill terror attack
The attack on police officers guarding the U.S. Capitol last week was the latest example of homegrown terrorism in which extremists have carefully planned a failed attempt to inflict a major death toll, U.S. officials say.
Authorities in Washington found two handwritten notes near the remains of the truck and van used by the alleged assailants, Russell DeBusk, 49, and Sarah Ragland Sanders, 49, both of whom were reportedly associated with far-right and white supremacist groups.
Read the full story at The Guardian.
Extremists who have adopted a more sophisticated style of deadly domestic terrorism pose a threat to the United States, but the government is not prepared to arrest, detain or even penalize the more obscure and less-thought-out groups for exercising their constitutional rights, a senior official from the Department of Homeland Security said.
The official, who spoke to The Guardian on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the case, said the authorities had good intelligence on a number of individuals whose activities might suggest they could pose a threat in the future. But he would not specifically say whether those groups could be prosecuted or arrested, or punished with the kind of “vigorous and aggressive” responses seen after the London Bridge terror attack last June.
Read the full story at The Guardian.
Related
Sen. Rand Paul urges indictment of lone shooter after Capitol Hill shooting

The Takedown: GhostNetWorship | Cyber Vigilance | How to Resolve a Resolvable Conflict
This month’s episode of The Takedown explores how the takedown of the dark-web marketplace AlphaBay is shaping digital corruption, and what to expect from more adversaries like it. “The problem with AlphaBay was that it hid behind the veil of a nonprofit,” Simon Maloy writes, referring to the infamous dark-web marketplace owned by AlphaBay’s creators who used the site as a way to conceal from authorities their illicit activity. They even appeared to operate it as a safe house for their crimes. The site was shut down by a joint operation of the FBI and the Netherlands’ Cybercrime Investigation Group (CGIM) in December.
“Essentially, the narrative for AlphaBay was that it was a place where nobody needed to participate because there was no crime,” Robert Walsh says, who runs GhostNetWorship. “Because they were presenting themselves as hackers, criminals, conspirators, or hackers, it’s hard to see them as evil.”
Some of the culprits in the matter have been caught, and a substantial number have been arrested, but our trio—whose job it is to investigate digital corruption and document it online—hasn’t seen as many cases this year as in 2018. “For a brief period of time, it looked like we would be able to target very, very, very high-impact suspects across the spectrum,” says Murphy. “That’s no longer the case.”
The final video features a look at how federal agencies are using computer simulations to fight cybercrime and to identify the hackers behind cyberattacks, and demonstrate “what would actually be necessary for the attack to occur in the first place.” They also show how Dark Web networks have evolved beyond AlphaBay, and the threats they have created against the media and public. “It’s the first time where the media has found out about an attack before the people doing the attack have, and we’re not trying to hide anymore,” explains Cohen.
The conversation between Maloy, Cohen, and Murphy is a web exclusive and moderated by Cohen. Click below to hear it:
—Eric Hegedüs

U.S. abortion rights group visits Poland to protest abortion law
FERRARI, Poland (AP) — Poland’s new law that outlaws abortions is entering into force as planned, though thousands of demonstrators protesting the law have chosen to protest across the country Sunday.
Conservative leaders passed the measure over objections of most of the political opposition and medical professionals. Many doctors and nurses are unwilling to perform abortions because of potential prosecution, and the lower courts have rejected nine of the 10 appeals filed against the law.
Doctors performing abortions face up to 3 ½ years in prison, punishable by up to five years in prison if they fail to keep medical records. Women who receive abortions, as well as those with loved ones who do them, can face up to 1 ½ years in prison.
Women using illegal abortion pills face a potential fine and up to three years in prison.
On Saturday, thousands marched in hundreds of cities across Poland, throwing rose petals as they walked down main streets.
“In all those cities that had the march, I saw ‘Are you alone in Poland?’ There was applause, and sometimes they were expressing that yes, we are alone, and this means that this law was wrong and cannot be defended,” said 21-year-old Andrzej Szybelski, who marched in the Polish capital on Saturday.
Poland is notorious for having some of the world’s longest waiting periods for abortion and routinely clocking in among the lowest rates of women obtaining abortions. While Poland’s abortion rates per 1,000 women are low, they have spiked, especially in rural areas.
So far, about 1,600 women have had abortions after getting legal permission in Poland. Most of them traveled abroad, as they did before the law was passed, but several women used legal provisions to travel to France or to Germany.
Some 73 protesters have been arrested since the law was passed April 9, according to the Center for Civil Rights in Poland.
Protesters said they feel solidarity for women who had illegal abortions in Poland and have joined the ranks of those they consider part of a “sisterhood of the pro-life.”
Others in the country seem to be afraid of being targeted for their faith. Christian Perrine, 55, attended the march in Warsaw and said that while Poland’s Catholic church had been right to oppose the law, “now there’s a kind of anger against them.”
“It’s easier to fear the authorities and politicians, because they have money and influence, than to face up to your conscience,” he said.
While Poland’s current abortion rate is still comparatively low, that has changed since the law was passed.
In 2015, there were 2,552 abortions in Poland compared to 1,986 abortions in 2016, according to the Ministry of Health.

Hedge Funds Are About as Lucky as Hedge Funds
What is it about hedge funds that attracts idiot savant investors and criminal jokers?
Take a look at this list of San Francisco-based hedge-fund firms that lost a combined $1.86 billion to an ill-fated $500 million algorithmic trading program developed by a group of ex-Goldman Sachs (GS) interns:
HarborVest LLC lost $125 million.
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC and Diamondback Capital Management LLC lost $1.35 billion each.
J.P. Morgan Chase (JPM) lost $514 million.
Man Group Plc (GLG) lost $505 million.
Bridgewater Associates LP lost $488 million.
Tiger Global Management lost $187 million.
Flamingo Capital Management LLC lost $15 million.
Tiger Global Management LP lost $15 million.
Clayton Dubilier & Rice lost $10 million.
Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. lost $3 million.
Calpine Corp. (CPN) lost $2 million.
Duncan Niederauer lost $1 million.
Hedge-fund giants Omega Advisors, Citadel and Farallon Capital Management, which allegedly bet against the prime-mover credit derivatives of any of these hedge funds, paid a combined $55 million in fines and fines.
Grossly out of order, in the same 13F-Y filing, to the SEC, from September 2011 through September 2012 (and the first four months of 2013), published by the SEC -- I'm not making this up -- Greenlight Capital, which was this week hit with a class-action lawsuit, earned $1.025 billion.
What's the point? What does this have to do with anything? More to the point, let's simply close out this observation for the day. One hedge fund with $8 billion in assets that lost $500 million from a $500 million program. Hedge funds with $50 billion and $25 billion and less in assets, who won their bets. One other hedge fund with over $15 billion in assets that lost over $1 billion. Hedge funds who are unregulated by the SEC, according to Bloomberg, holding over $48 billion.
We can certainly debate what the proper measures of success in hedge funds should be and what the appropriate capitalization of hedge funds should be. But even when you turn the clock back to the early 1980s, when the chart of red apples is an indicator of growing frustration among investors -- prior to the collapse of the Texas hedge fund Kerr McGee, Dick Grasso's reign as chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, and the rise of the, um, cunning hedge fund investor -- the sad state of hedge fund performance today is clearly devoid of any of the magnanimity with which the hedge fund crowd has long indulged their portfolios.
For hedge fund investors, common sense is clearly not a guiding principle. "Lucky" is not a word that is used in the modern hedge fund environment -- just ask Man Group, which I believe had me on its short list of underperformers when it made the short.
Grasso got me in with the next best thing: paying a mere pittance in management fees. Any hedge fund that wants to enter our investment plan now probably won't have to pay me at all.
This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of Bloomberg View's editorial board or Bloomberg LP, its owners and investors.

Swine flu deaths show U.S. vaccine prep falls short - study
April 12 (Reuters) - One woman’s death last month in San Francisco was not only a terrible tragedy but a perfect example of the rise in swine flu-related fatalities in the United States.
Results from 11,000 participants in 10 U.S. state and national vaccine trials were published on Wednesday with mixed results. But the incidence of death was less than in studies on people in developing countries and African-Americans were more likely to get shots.
The 2,000-patient U.S. Black Community Health Survey 2009, conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, collected data on 6,550 members of the African-American community. The data found the rates of death was much higher than that in parts of other states.
“We know that African-Americans tend to have a weaker immune system and most of those deaths were among people who had not had the opportunity to receive routine immunizations,” said Jerry I. Smith, who authored a paper on the paper at the Annals of Internal Medicine.
The CDC study did show that more African-Americans and Latinos received the H1N1 vaccine than were given shots in developing countries. But it also showed them to be more ill-prepared for a pandemic and more likely to need hospitalization.
About 4.2 percent of people in the survey needed to be hospitalized after getting the H1N1 shot compared with 2.7 percent for flu shots typically given annually.
“One of the things we found in the African-American community is that many people had no coverage, they didn’t know about the vaccine. These are all opportunities that we have to expand,” Smith said.
“We have to do a better job of getting people vaccinated and we can do that,” he said.
According to the CDC, about 43 million Americans received the vaccine since it went on sale in early October, with 65.4 million having had it, and 74 percent getting it in at least one region of the country.
Further, the number of people who got flu shots - 92 percent - was the highest recorded rate among any other flu season, with higher numbers in areas that got early flu shots and earlier reported cases. (Reporting by Toni Clarke in Washington; Editing by Jerry Norton)

Trump may poison the party, but Republicans have decided they need him
I call on Republicans to get their act together and no longer accept Trump’s toxic, unmoored rhetoric. | Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images Government Shutdown Trump may poison the party, but Republicans have decided they need him
If Donald Trump were president for four more years, what would Republicans have to say about his administration? Who would love him? Who would hate him? Those that stand behind him or despise him are not a majority. Conservatives in Congress have finally realized this. They were sworn into power in the hopes that they could stop Trump. Yet with each outrageous tweet, stalling of the Justice Department’s criminal probe and order by the White House that the Justice Department not notify Congress of possible obstruction of justice, a majority of this body has come to believe that it has no choice but to cooperate and move forward.
Trump’s unwillingness to accept criticism is slowly poisoning the party and preventing many Republicans from getting behind him. As newly elected members of Congress confront frustration at the White House’s resistance to significant policy changes, they will likely slow down the process and perhaps delay many of their key priorities until the 2020 election.
Story Continued Below
Americans have no patience for spending more time on job insecurity than they do on helping their families succeed in our fast-changing, high-tech economy. You don’t block needed federal regulations, launch baseless investigations into political opponents and bash the FBI. This is not how any modern administration, much less a one run by Trump, has been built. While Trump thinks Republicans will continue to give him a pass on his unrelenting attacks on the rule of law, Republicans in Congress understand that they are threatening their political survival.
When the Trump presidency started, Republicans feared that his executive power was expansive and those opposing him would fight back. But the concerns Republicans had then turned out to be completely wrong.
This fall, the nation will face some critical midterm elections. Democrats control nearly every statehouse in the country and are poised to take back the House. In the Senate, Democrats are considered slight favorites to flip seats. If Trump’s narrow margin of victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016 is any indication, Trump’s party will be facing a major rout. To keep control of the House and at least a small majority in the Senate, Trump’s party will have to grow their majority by two or three seats.
This is a chance for Republicans to truly stand for something — for some transcendent conservative values like fiscal responsibility and free trade, but it will require they unite around bold reforms. If they cannot do that, their electoral chances will continue to be sapped by the Trump presidency. Without the self-destructive conduct of Trump’s allies in Congress, they would have had an opportunity to help Trump shift the focus of his presidency to his economic agenda and avoid the damage Trump is wreaking on the party.
POLITICO Magazine is partnering with the Aspen Institute for a special event on Thursday featuring Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Elizabeth Warren. Topics to be discussed include the Democratic Party’s messaging and strategy for winning the congressional midterms. Tickets and information are available here .
Despite party infighting over his rhetoric and reckless tweets, Trump may also have poisoned the party. A number of Republicans have begun to support investigations into Trump’s own business dealings. It may not seem important to point out that Trump and his family already own and operate their businesses. But these inquiries will continue to sting Trump’s own agenda. With Democrats eager to introduce their own investigation of the president, there will be no quick or easy fix to the extent Trump’s actions harm congressional Republicans.
You don’t make your home by burning down your neighbor’s house. If Republicans want to stay relevant in a way that will be sustainable for the long term, they need to take a strong stand against Trump. It may be too late to save the GOP, but it isn’t too late to save their re-election prospects in the coming midterm elections. The White House and the Republicans in Congress need to get their act together and no longer accept Trump’s toxic, unmoored rhetoric.
Jon Cruddas is former director of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. Nick Lowles is executive director of Unlock Democracy.

The UN Finally Wants to Sell Plastic Bottles in the Moon
Recycling isn’t just a dirty word—it’s a “blessing in disguise,” in the words of one recycling expert. But neither it nor the term “plastics” are generally thought of as helpful definitions. Recycling? “It is about less of what we do, rather than more of what we do,” says Byron Studebaker, a materials scientist at the University of Colorado. His vocabulary gloss: “everything we can think of that we’re not doing that we should.”
Why it matters:
Some jobs may be never replaced
It is possible to make plastics cheaply and easily—they’re recyclable and contain valuable materials, such as metallic composites—but most consumer products don’t look like they should. And of course, plastics are made from oil, which is expensive and difficult to get rid of. The Arch Plastic Council is at least as concerned about putting petroleum in our own houses as it is about getting rid of harmful petroleum byproducts. A “population circular economy” has been the buzz phrase of the high-powered plastics industry since 2005, when recycling won the Nobel Peace Prize. Its goal: To put oil products in the ground, not into the stores, and then use them for years or decades after that, before most of us have gone to the landfill.
Moreover, the way people think about plastics is what’s important. In terms of new construction, for example, “more is not better” is not always true. Plastics made with creative technology—using carbon fiber and aluminum foil, for example—may be superior to other materials, but are typically more expensive than comparable old plastic. New materials may also look better to people—or be perceived as more effective—so they do better in the commercial marketplace, where most construction occurs today.
Why it matters:

'I'm just furious': Relations in Congress crack after attack
President Donald Trump ordered the Marine Corps to open all combat posts to female Marines. | Charles Dharapak/AP Photo White House 'I'm just furious': Relations in Congress crack after attack
More strains emerged on Friday in Congress after a suspected shooter allegedly sought Democratic members of Congress outside a congressional baseball practice.
The Democratic leaders of the chamber acknowledged the death of House majority whip Steve Scalise of Louisiana, who was critically wounded on Thursday.
Story Continued Below
He was a bipartisan congressman who worked on several projects for the Capitol Police. He was the sixth member of Congress to suffer a gunshot wound since the 2016 election.
“The shooting that happened yesterday is a wound to the heart of our democracy,” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, both of California. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and with their families. We know and we pray that Congressman Steve Scalise, a patriot and a fighter, will pull through, as will the many others who were wounded.”
Scalise, who was expected to undergo surgery Friday, is among three people treated for gunshot wounds suffered as a gunman opened fire on the members of Congress while they were practicing for an upcoming charity baseball game against the All-Stars.
Keep up with POLITICO Playbook The 2020 Election. The New Congress. The Mueller Investigation. Be in the Know. Email Sign Up By signing up you agree to receive email newsletters or alerts from POLITICO. You can unsubscribe at any time.
“As each day passes, our hearts go out to the victims,” the top Republican and Democrat in the Senate said in a joint statement. “Their families, friends, colleagues and constituents — and all Americans — should know that they are in our prayers and that our country stands in unity and strength with them.”
But Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), an ally of Scalise’s who previously served with him on the armed services committee, criticized the Democratic leadership’s statement.
“I’m just furious and disappointed, especially as we keep Steve Scalise in our prayers,” Meadows said. “It’s wrong.”
Meadows said Scalise deserved a higher level of condolence because he had been shot, as opposed to House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who fell victim to a crime, he added.
“It’s like we don’t care,” Meadows said. “Nancy Pelosi gets the memo that her day is over.”

Firefighters, in California, are on the edge of a border that’s open for business
WHEN THE AIR BLEW UP IN YOUR FACE — OR THE SNOW CAME
The news out of California is all too familiar by now: a gigantic winter snowsnap; then the scorching heat of spring. In the Sierra Nevada (“Where America’s Skiing Ain’t”) a fire has erupted. In Death Valley (“Where America’s Drought Ain’t”), snowdrifts are closing in.
California is on fire. As — intentionally or accidentally — thousands of firefighters tried to quell an out-of-control forest fire, cold weather has doubled the fire threat across the state. Workers of Chino Valley Air Station in Southern California, where the snow began falling last Thursday, were being called in.
It was the first time the station was called in to help fight wildfires.
“We’re ready for what it throws at us,” Capt. Andrew Day told National Geographic.
California’s wildfires hit something of a critical point last week when the US National Weather Service declared that the 10-day forecast for the central United States “forecasts large and increasing fire activity in California and Nevada.”
Because the state’s forests are the largest in the United States, the snow spread the fire risk across much of the West — to Colorado, New Mexico, Washington, Oregon, Utah, Idaho, Montana, Nebraska, and South Dakota, as well as northern Arizona and western Nevada.
Wildfires are now “intense, fast-moving, and widespread,” prompting Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey on Monday to declare a state of emergency in Yavapai County, a fire zone.
Elsewhere, two wildfires burned west of Phoenix. A highway was closed in New Mexico and two other new fires, one in northern California and one near Glacier National Park, forced evacuations.
In California, southerly winds bringing gusts up to 80 miles per hour have allowed at least six fires to spread quickly across the Pacific north of Los Angeles, near Yosemite National Park.
There were less immediate effects of the blazes: California’s is famous for its water shortages, and with much of its rain and snow melting in arid locations like Death Valley and Sierra Nevada, it is also famous for extreme rainfall when it occurs.
Not so all the same: while it is snowing again in California, in California it isn’t snowing on national parks anymore.
FROM THE ARCHIVES: 10 Times politicians crossed the line into outright misogyny
Correction: A previous version of this article gave the wrong snowfall on Death Valley. It is a record 0.2 inches.

Australia’s youthful age of discovery
Few politicians have had the rapid rise in popularity that has defined former Australian Treasurer and Prime Minister Peter Costello. Just 10 years ago, he was acting as treasurer in the last Whitlam government before the rest of the nation rose up against the special favours of the unpopular leader. In 2001, Costello’s father unexpectedly died in a car accident during his son’s term as Prime Minister. Today, in a country which took the U.K. for granted, so many people think of Costello as an Australian doing Australian things that the government made a national tribute to him that became a national conversation topic. Now comes his biggest challenge since politics: persuading Australia’s population to back his plan to sell his most prized asset: the nation’s trillion-dollar AAA-rated sovereign bond portfolio.
Once the sound of the horses hoofing over sandstone courtyards, Treasurer Australia—a brand that fetches the highest returns in the world—is set to become the town square at midnight to settle disagreements on key policy issues in the socially conservative countryside where its insurer, Commonwealth Bank of Australia, must provide bank services to children, farmers, businesspeople, mothers, and retirees in remote areas. "For us to keep our AAA rating is all about cost management and ensuring that the government is able to see that we’re maintaining our AAA status through a period of economic growth with a government bond, like the Australian government itself, is a prudent thing to do," Costello told Bloomberg earlier this week.
In a country where Canada leads the pack with its triple-A rating, the auction is seen as one of the biggest tests of investor confidence in months. Senior government officials, policy makers, advisers, and academic economists around the country have been bringing guest speakers to states and territories as part of promotional tours to buttress the Aussie investment case. While Australian long-dated government bonds yielded about 2.7 percent at the time of the auction, they have retreated to 1.8 percent—a level last reached in 2009 and last seen in January.
Australia’s dollar fell this week against its U.S. counterpart, which was trading toward a nine-year high, on signs that the interest rate divergence between Australia and the U.S. won’t be enough to offset lower Australian growth expectations. The two-year yield was little changed at 1.79 percent after the bond auction.
Australia’s decision to avoid a weakening in the currency due to the instability in Ukraine has been one of the key elements enabling the country to outperform the U.S. government debt outlook. Next week, Treasurer Joe Hockey is expected to explain to Treasurer George Osborne in London whether his team of top Australian lenders and government officials will be part of the European Commission’s investigation into the mortgage securities crisis. The world’s economies have a great deal in common, Costello says. That makes it a good choice to be part of the investigation and "contrast" Australia with the U.S. which has yet to take any steps in its investigation into the financial crisis.
The Australian government had $1.1 trillion in domestic debt and A$717 billion in foreign debt held by the public at the end of March—the highest ever level, but still well below the scale of government debt held by Canada, the U.K., and Japan. "The Australian system had its own unique issues at the time, but it is also an example of Australian government commitment, its stability, its resilience, but also of how easy it was to lose control of fiscal spending and aggregate demand," says John Dickson, director of financial analysis at Markets Economics. "We had a financial crisis like no other, but in essence what happened was the market chose to repurchase debt at prices that were already depressed."

How Biden ran the U.S. for a decade — or more
Time ran out on a loan to remodel an outdoor gym and play area on the roof of the office, according to the owner. | M. Scott Mahaskey/POLITICO Biden terminating border wall construction contracts
Vice President Joe Biden was less than 11 weeks into his administration when he suffered the embarrassment of his first chief of staff, David Hale, resigning in disgrace because of a gambling problem. According to an investigative report this week, Biden is in an even deeper hole in his first year as president of the United States.
A Midwestern construction company that was awarded a $2.4 million contract for border wall repairs at the Panama Canal caught Biden red-handed in an inveterate dog of an administrative structure designed to stop any future cleanup work.
Story Continued Below
In keeping with the hand-me-down philosophy that governs out-of-control federal spending in today’s Washington, the vice president’s mansion’s roof is waterlogged. In the wake of Hurricane Matthew, which the Beau Biden-led Obama administration perceived as a threat, a redesign of a play area for the president and his family on the house’s roof has fallen through. Obama apparently signed off on the reconstruction in August 2017.
Instead of waiting for the start of the 2020 campaign season, the Biden administration pulled the plug on the repair plan before the work even began. Time ran out on a loan to remodel an outdoor gym and play area on the roof of the office, according to the owner. The 54th floor on the ship’s prow currently remains empty.
Biden reportedly told the ship owner that the island of Canada was a natural alternative for the repairs, but this is an island once colonized by the British Army in 1606. Two friends of mine thought the decision to invest in a limestone and marble columned gazebo would have been a better choice for the vice president.
The three-story structure would have been worth $10 million when the campaign could afford it.
Not knowing the president and the vice president were boinking with contractors in Delaware, the rest of the time, staffers embarked on subpar construction projects to save hundreds of thousands of dollars each, according to multiple sources. Another article reported that taxpayer money was used to fund a lap pool for the Washington staff.
“With the help of engineers who helped him on various projects as a former senator and senator-elect, Biden drafted up a detailed list of top-10 lists of President Obama’s most wasteful spending,” a source familiar with the report told The Washington Post. “For the Obama administration, every project and every inspector general report about the size and cost of programs is categorically shredded and ignored so that Obama supporters and Clinton supporters don’t start sounding off.”
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., believes the Obama administration was guilty of excessive frivolity while running the government, especially with regard to investigating private citizens, but acknowledges Biden has his own issues.
“What we don’t know is if vice president Biden spent $20,000 to remodel his office,” Conyers said at a recent hearing. “The vice president, of course, is going to say that’s a lot of money, but maybe that’s exactly what they said was reasonable.”
As he nears the end of his 10-year second term, Obama is being able to re-launch his post presidency and create a legacy that makes him stand out in a field of a dozen politicians. Whether he will have fulfilled his promise is subject to interpretation. A president who agreed with his predecessor in almost every way and funded nearly every Democrat’s pet project will not be able to salvage his own legacy as easily as he wants.
A better predictor of his legacy will be his judicial appointments, having broken with his vice president with numerous appeals court appointments and judicial appointments to the Supreme Court. A supreme disaster for every Democrat except Patrick Leahy, Biden’s 2014 nomination of Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.
With a current approval rating under 30 percent, Biden’s chances of being the next president of the United States have been zooming away like his party’s presidential prospects. Is he capable of making things right? Is he willing to follow his own advice by withdrawing $2.4 million in bridge repair funds? His day of reckoning is coming fast and the outcome won’t be pretty.
Ambitious Dems generally want President Obama to make things better for them. Put them off the trail while making sure they get full service and there is nothing wrong with America. How quickly those wishes turn into reality.

Goldilocks Robot Folds Ribs Like ‘a Piece of Grain Husk in a Dike With Hills’
Have you ever wanted to see what happens when a robot surgeon slices open an exposed rib?
The Goldilocks Robot — which “marks its food like a human would” — doesn’t just cut into ribs, it bends them like twisted hay bales. Think of “a piece of grain husk in a dike with hills,” says researcher Andrew Kwelis, “rolled over one another and snagged into a fold.”
And what would you call that?
“It’s like being trapped in a whirlpool in curtained-off water,” says Kwelis.
You know what you would call that? The robots we had years ago. The robots we had the first week in October, the robots we had before the end of October, and the robots we had at the end of January.
You know what you would call that? My armpit, which has the perfect height for a robot torso, but which I never get to enjoy.
Anyway, “Hold on a minute,” said Kwelis. There was an eight-inch tip at the top of the rib, and “that’s like a potato of one’s impression of what the human rib looks like.”
“For a surgeon, there’s a million different things that need to be taken out,” said Kwelis. “And the surgeon has to do everything by his or her guess. And if the results are not good, people die. In robot operating rooms, it makes it significantly safer for surgeons to operate on patients because they know what it looks like and it’s controlled by computers.”
Alas, you can’t just call an ATA surgeon from Brooklyn or say, “Start switching the bolts and I’ll flip it.” Not anymore! (If you can’t do that, think of how disappointed you’ll be at the end of the day.)
But you can call a surgically-enhanced Google search of “Angel of Death” or “Terminator 2: Judgment Day.” Or when the Rover lands and kills its maker.
And that’s when they show you the robot man and the robot woman and the one robot with man’s features and the robot with woman’s eyes.
Sorry to keep you waiting, but the robot is very good. And you can wait.
You can bring the kids to YouTube and watch the video here.

Man of Grass (in case you hadn't guessed): Kerala's cannabis farmers, with social justice in their DNA
“Kerala the unlikely place for a small criminal,” reads a press report when one describes a man featured in a recent Indian news piece from newsagencies.in. If true, that means he has seen a need and stepped up to fill it.
Praful Pathan, a 22-year-old man in Kerala, is the leader of Hothitka Bappa (The Very Poor) Police Association, a nonviolent organisation which fights to protect the downtrodden from eviction. He is also a member of the cannabis farming collective Hothitka Bappa (War, Heroes and Scholars) – the first association in the country founded on the principles of self-reliance, hard work and social equity. The core members of the collective grow several medicinal herbs and essential oils. They meet in a remote area overlooking a colonial-era plantation (still used for farming and conversion into gardens), make the collective grow organic, and then sell the products on to clients. The name of the association comes from the word ‘hothitka’ (from which ‘the very poor’ derives) which, more than 40 years ago, began to refer to landless farmers who struggled to overcome bureaucracy and get a share of the small profits that the new agricultural settlements and institutes at farmers’ doorsteps were producing.
Today, Hothitka Bappa continues to be an inspiration in the farming community for its skill, diligence and social responsibility. Anyone connected to the coconut, tea or jaggery industries has always owned a plantation near Cancun. So you’d think that, as the growth of those industries has caught on, so would the Hothitka-Hothitka Bappa link. But alas, no, a detailed look at the collective will show that almost all the members are tenant farmers, currently residing in places like Satmattur, Perumal, and Bidadi. And of the cluster of 41 members, over half are Hindu. Hindu, with an Indian origin, except a lone Baptist, are much like Ambedkar’s Scheduled Castes: socially excluded, and thus seldom represented in the active pool of cultivators.
Raising the question of casteism in a farm community at a time when the farming community is already denuded of its most productive elements is commendable, though why the group continues to be a Hindu one is always puzzling. Would the presence of Ambedkar himself have helped, for instance? For many of the members of Hothitka Bappa, the answer is no. Some – particularly among the women and younger members of the group – feel that it is discriminatory.
However, a brief description of Hinduism, as opposed to divinity, would help. With the hatred that has now resulted in decades of racial and religious conflict in many parts of the world, the word ‘Hindu’ can be thought of as a term of hatred and division. Hindustan can be used to mock for lack of holiness. In their experiences, Hindus like C. S. Radhakrishnan, Jayadev Pattani, K. Shriram, Kumar Jhala Gopalan, R. K. Padmanabhan, Satyenanda Shankaracharya, and Sadarupatta Rao – who all dreamed of a global India – have sadly seen their ideas and dreams flaunted and abused. Even the newer ones, like B. D. Birla, who felt that the Bastar youth should go to India in search of job opportunities, are not able to make a dent at the socio-political level. All that they have managed to do is sow seeds of division.
Two botanical influences, Mysore pomegranate and Mysore apples, come to mind when contemplating the group. Each one is mighty in its own way: Mysore apples are cunning, while Mysore pomegranate is bold and fierce. I wonder if not only Hindus but also their enemies would reject them both.
With so many men willing to share their labour, of putting in 50, 60 or even 90 hours every week, it is difficult to see who is responsible for the propagation of their faith. Those responsible would be able to uplift their respective groups and hopefully increase the confidence of the young men so that they may also proactively find employment elsewhere, instead of losing out entirely to unemployment and grinding poverty.

Trump's Florida estate looks to government to preserve its green-belt
LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - A late-in-life coup may help preserve U.S. President Donald Trump’s spectacular golf estate - and ensure it remains in his control - even if he leaves office in January 2021.
Donald Trump gestures as he talks with French President Emmanuel Macron (not pictured) at the White House in Washington, U.S., April 11, 2018. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst
Trump’s Mar-a-Lago golf resort in Florida is grappling with the cost of a golf range in the parched southwest corner of its two-million-square-foot clubhouse. But instead of paying for the maintenance and upkeep of the facility’s luxury tees and greens, the club and its golf committee are seeking a government subsidy.
It is one of the biggest weapons in Trump’s arsenal against his opponents, a project that has been brewing in the shadows for years. The club’s application, filed in January, seeks to get more than $2 million a year from the government’s golf course and club subsidy program - a subsidy that dates back more than 40 years.
The club may have to sacrifice other amenities to secure it. Some 11 of its 25 acres would have to be set aside as green space, with the rest used for parking. The condition is two-thirds larger than current government requirements.
“It’s the end of paradise” when the course is gone, says Robin Ash, executive director of the New York League of Conservation Voters, which helped file the federal environmental impact statement on the project.
The application is an effort by Trump’s club to maintain ownership of the course. For at least the past 25 years, Trump has held the property on a 99-year lease with the federal government.
In June 2017, Trump offered to extend his lease for just 10 years. In return, the government would pay the property $100 million, an offer welcomed by the United States Golf Association, a governing body, which oversees the course. Trump agreed to the compromise, a deal that would allow him to keep his course in operation well beyond 2021.
Most lease terms would have expired long ago.
In December 2017, under pressure from Congressional Republicans, an official of the U.S. General Services Administration approved the extension of the lease for 10 years. That agreement covers leases holding federal buildings, mostly those leased by the National Park Service, and works out to a rate of $1.7 million a year.
Several Senators opposed the extension. The club expressed concern about a possible surge in storm-damaged maintenance expenses. By January, a Trump Organisation spokesman confirmed that the U.S. General Services Administration “permanently extended the terms of the lease with the Trump Organization for Mar-a-Lago.”
Trump paid taxes on his profits from the lease, which sources familiar with the matter have put at around $30 million.
Alan Garten, a vice president of the Trump Organization, could not be reached for comment.
In August, Garten did not comment to Reuters about the club’s application for a federal subsidy for the course.
The Trump Organization and the U.S. General Services Administration declined requests for interviews.
The club does not seek any funds from the National Park Service. Spokesman Jim Dowling said the club has no obligation to make money.
A spokeswoman for the National Park Service declined to comment.
Mar-a-Lago is not the only Trump-owned club to seek government assistance.
An application for federal help was filed by the Trump International Golf Club in the seaside resort town of West Palm Beach, Florida. The application is on the website of the Florida Coastal Federation, a conservation group.
“The Trump International Golf Club has been requesting federal government assistance through the Golf Course Development Grant Program and would be open to utilizing any public lands for their use,” the application said.
The club has requested $700,000 a year, a subsidy from the program that usually pays about $700,000 a year, an inspector with the federal Department of the Interior said.
The project met with federal approval in September. The inspector would not comment.
Trump International Golf Club did not respond to questions about the application.
The public is on notice that the exemption’s deadline is coming up.
On Tuesday, at a meeting in Jacksonville with state lawmakers in an ongoing effort to protect waterways in the Florida panhandle, North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis questioned the integrity of the program and drew a call to scale it back from the top White House aide on tax reform.
Trump has applied for dozens of exemptions, some the same size as the one for Mar-a-Lago. For instance, his Missisippi golf club wants to use

Tokyo Earthquake Aftermath: No Reports of Major Damage
(Reuters) - A powerful earthquake on Tuesday shook southern Japan but produced no major damage, authorities said, with no tsunamis alert issued.
The magnitude 6.8 quake struck 77 miles west of Tokyo, the United States Geological Survey said, and was initially reported as a magnitude 7.2.
As a precaution, eight people were taken to a Tokyo hospital with serious breathing difficulties, according to the Kyodo news agency.
The quake was “felt strongly” in Miyagi Prefecture, a prefecture not far from where a 9.0 magnitude earthquake shook a country more than three years ago and triggered a tsunami that killed 18,000 people.
Japanese media showed footage of people, sitting on the floor, running from classrooms in the coastal city of Otsuchi, while business people in Tokyo told Reuters they were preparing to rush home.
But a police official in Otsuchi told Reuters he had heard of no serious injuries. The region, especially the city, was severely affected by a magnitude 9.0 earthquake in March 2011, which sparked a tsunami that killed 19,800 people and triggered meltdowns at the Fukushima nuclear plant.
The other two damaging quakes hit the country in 2004, with a magnitude 6.8 shaking a large swathe of the country, killing about 19,900 people.

Ethiopia arrests opposition figures
There is no public report of a Tiananmen-style massacre there, but after a Friday protest by Ethiopians in Southern Ethiopia, tens of thousands of prisoners reportedly escaped.
Police say that many of those in prison were activists involved in opposition to the former regime of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, according to independent media outlets. The ex-Prime Minister Meles Zenawi came to power in 1991 after the overthrow of the Marxist government, and was killed in a 2015 military coup.
The security forces, as well as the police, took to social media to warn people not to “abandon their senses,” the Associated Press reported. Officials warned that authorities will not spare anyone, including those who take part in the protest.
All of this has come amid the country’s tensions over land, with the government taking issue with the legal rights of farmers. In 2013, the government removed hundreds of families from their land, and according to the Epoch Times, in March alone officials uprooted 90 families in Southern Ethiopia. Families are now living on roads in the countryside, driven from their homes by bulldozers.
Thousands of civil servants have been fired or reassigned from their jobs in recent months.
Over the past few months, Ethiopia has registered an uptick in political discontent. The largest protests were in Oromia and Amhara regions, which have long been resistant to the ruling party’s policies. And on March 28, the government expelled from the country Mohamed Ahmed Eroodh, an opposition party member and former member of parliament. On April 9, several more opposition parties were banned, including Abrekazan, a party led by a former opposition party member, and the Obat Gabrao and Usrat Oromo parties.
The ban on political parties is a measure that has been taken in other countries with long histories of political instability, such as Syria and Egypt. It has allowed the government to completely control this second party, which had previously worked with other opposition parties.
Sidon Habtemariam, the chairman of the Ethiopian Democratic Party, said that the ban was the most serious move taken by the government.
“This is serious because the government is taking our party away from the political struggle,” Habtemariam said. “We expect this will slow down political activities.”
The ban comes less than three weeks after Meskel, a world-renowned documentary filmmaker, was arrested. If there is one incident to symbolize the struggle for democracy in Ethiopia, it is being taken away from Meskel.
At the time of his arrest, Meskel was working on a documentary about pro-democracy leaders in Ethiopia. “The film is about four individuals who have embarked on a seemingly impossible quest,” Meskel wrote on Facebook. “They want to change their society, their country from a dictatorship to a democracy.”
He was then imprisoned and released after his wife petitioned the authorities to give her husband back to her. He had just begun filming a third installment in the series, which included interviews with individual members of the opposition. The specific detail was not completely lost on the leaders of his own party, according to the American Society for the Defense of Democracies.
“Ethiopia has an authoritarian system where decisions about whom to prosecute, who to allow in and who to expel are not always democratic,” a spokeswoman for the group wrote in an email.